This time our conclusion is pee there
were setting out to show pee
Again I indent I first premise is
if not P then not cute
The second premise is q
I need to find a way to get e
If I look at line two and line three
I noticed that line 2 is a conditional
And its consequences not Q
And 93 then
Is what the consequence is a negation of
right
So you might think
I can apply modus tollens lines 2 and
3 and it should give me p
And you'll notice over here instead of
an ice
plus sign I have an ex if you have
her over it you'll get the world's least
helpful
explanation of what's gone wrong
actually that's not true
this is fairly helpful information it's
just it's just
a bit overwhelming in the way that it's
presented
So what went wrong
Well modus tollens doesn't
work like this
Modus tollens doesn't say that if
you've got a conditional and
the consequent is a negation
And your other promise is what
the consequences a negation of
Then you can infer what the antecedent
does
a negation up that's not Mota Solon
Modus tollens says that if you have a
conditional
and then another line you have the
negation of
the consequent in this case the negation
of
not Q then you can apply modus tollens
Q is not the
negation of not Q
Q is the inauguration of not
Q or if you like not
Q is the negation of Q
The negation of a sentence is what you
get when you add a negation sign
to the front of that sent so
the negation of Q is not Q
And the negation of not Q is what you
get when
you add a negation sign to the front of
not cute
and they gation of not Q is not not cute
If only we had not not Q
as a premise then we could
apply modus tollens to line two
But we don't have not
knock you we have q
Is there a way for us to
get not not Q from Q well
yes there is double negation
introduction gets
us not knock you from Q
Now online to I
have a conditional
And the consequent is a conditional is
not q and online for I
have the negation of that consequent
This is what I needed in
order to apply modus tollens
When I apply modus tollens it's
not going to give me pee
It's going to give me the negation of
its antecedent the negation of that
antecedent is
that antecedent but with an extra not
sign added to the front so it's
going to give me not not pee
By modus tollens from
2 and 4
Okay so now I have not not
pee but I need pee pee
is what I'm trying to show
You might think well peeing not not pee
or logically equivalent so I'm done
director vacation
line five that's wrong and you'll get an
A sign up there indicating that it's
wrong
In order to complete this derivation I
need to derive the very same sentence
as the sentence that's on my
The sentence that's on my show line it's
not enough
to drive a sentence that is logically
equivalent to that
I need to drive exactly that sentence
I need P it's not enough for
me to have not not pee
Is there a way for me to get
P from not not P will yes there
is I can get P from not not
pee by double negation elimination
online 5
Now I have online six exactly the
sentence that
is on my show line online one I
have proven what I set out to show
So I can now enter my kiwi
D line and it is correct
In this chapter the
trickiest trick there is
Is the trick of using double negation
introduction and double negation
elimination as needed
in order to massage the premises you
have into the right form to then
apply modus tollens do another premise
that
you have or to massage what
modus tollens spits out into the
form that you need to complete
your derivation this is the biggest
trick the hardest thing in this